# d-proof
D-Proof is an automated proof generator written in the D Programming Language.
It is designed to be modular, and is capable of supporting different parsers, rules, and provers.

Proofs are generated by creating new statements using various rules.

## Prefix Parser

The prefix parser creates expression trees from strings. A LISP-like syntax is used. For example, write
the following to say 'a and b implies d or not f':
	( implies (and a b) (or d (not f)) )

Whitespace is tolerated around parentheses, and greek letters may be used for predicates or variables.
Neither predicates nor variables need to be predeclared, and any number of arguments may be given to
any predicate. However, using the wrong number may cause certain rules to ignore an expression.

## Rules

Currently only forward proving is supported. Thus, most of the introduction rules are not in place.
The following rules are implemented and working:
* And Elimination: '(and a b ...)' --> 'a, b, ...'
* Or Elimination: '(or a b ...)' --> proof by cases (subproofs)
* Not Elimination: '(not (not x))' --> 'x'
* Conditional Elimination: '(implies a b)', 'a' --> 'b'
* Contradiction Intro/Elim (combined): '(and a b)', '(not (and a b))' --> goal

And- and Or-Elimination support an arbitrary number of arguments greater or equal to 1.

Aliases are not supported, so the predicates must be spelled out. Variables may be any string made of
alphanumeric or greek characters.

## Main Application

D-Proof can read files containing expressions or can be run interactively. In both cases, lines are read
one at a time. If a line starts with a '#', it is treated as a comment and ignored. If it starts with a '$',
it is treated as a special command (see below). Otherwise each line is treated as an expression. Goals are
specified by starting the line with a '%' symbol. Only one goal is supported currently.

To display usage information, use the following command:

	./d-proof --help

### Special Commands

In interactive mode, there are a few commands that may be used. These commands start with dollar signs:
* '$include <filename>': Read file '<filename>' and load its premises and goal. This is useful for using
axiom or lemma files.
* '$clear': Clears all statements, premises, and goals.
* '$dump': Print all premises and goals.
* '$quit', '$exit': Exits the program. The program may also be terminated by an EOF character (ctrl-D).
* '$prove': Executes the prover and prints a proof of the goal, if one can be found. This is only necessary
when the goal is in an included file, since interactively specifying a goal automatically starts the prover.

When reading files, only the '$include' command is supported.

## Known Issues

Currently, there are a few minor issues with the generator:
* Supporting statements' line numbers are not correctly cited, although under the hood they are correct.
* Subproofs are not displayed. Instead the relevant rule, such as Or-Elimination, is listed.


